Milestone 1: Data Preparation & Feature Engineering

Overview:
Milestone 1 targets the successful ingestion, cleaning, and preparation of the NASA CMAPSS dataset for the remaining useful life (RUL) prediction project. This stage includes generating the required features and RUL targets as input for deep learning model development.

Objectives:

Load and preprocess the multivariate, cycle-wise sensor dataset from CMAPSS.
Generate rolling window input sequences per engine/file:1.
Compute accurate RUL targets for every sequence and verify data integrity

Directory Structure:
text
project-root/
  ├── loader.py          # Loads and preprocesses raw CMAPSS data
  ├── rul.py             # RUL target computation functions
  ├── windows.py         # Rolling window sequence generation
  ├── preprocess.py      # End-to-end preprocessing pipeline
  ├── requirements.txt   # Python dependencies
  └── README.md          # Documentation

Installation:

Clone this repository and install dependencies:

git clone https://github.com/youruser/ai-prognosai.git
cd ai-prognosai
pip install -r requirements.txt

Dataset:
Download the NASA CMAPSS dataset from Kaggle and place it in the data/ directory.

Usage:
Data Preparation Pipeline

python preprocess.py --data_path ./data/train.csv --window 30 --step 1
Adjust script arguments for window size/overlap as needed

Script functions:

loader.py: Loads dataset, handles missing values.
windows.py: Generates rolling input sequences.
rul.py: Computes RUL targets and validates correctness.
preprocess.py: Runs the full data preparation pipeline and exports preprocessed files.

Deliverables:

Cleaned and preprocessed CMAPSS sensor dataset.
Python scripts for all data processing operations.
Generated rolling window sequences.
Accurate RUL targets for all sequences.

Evaluation:

Verify that the preprocessed data contains no missing values and correct sequence lengths.
Ensure RUL calculation is precise for each engine fleet cycle.
Document each preparation step in the README.

Next Steps:
After data is prepared, proceed to Milestone 2: Model Development & Training, for building deep learning regression models for RUL prediction.

